docs/tutorials/tutorial_part1.md, before:

# Tutorial: Part 1

This tutorial covers the basic concepts of SAYN and will get you going quickly. It uses the example
project created by `sayn init`. It assumes SAYN is setup as described in the
[installation section](../installation.md).

This project generates some random data with a `python` task and performs some modelling on it with
`autosql` tasks.

## Running SAYN

To get started, open a terminal, activate your virtual environment (`source sayn_venv/bin/activate`)
and run the following:

```bash
sayn init sayn_tutorial
cd sayn_tutorial
sayn run
```

This will create a new project with the contents of this tutorial and execute it.

![`sayn run` execution](sayn_run1.gif)

You can open `dev.db` and see the tables and views created by `sayn run`. You can use
[DB Browser for SQLite](https://sqlitebrowser.org/dl/){target="\_blank"} in order to view the
content of the database. As you can observe, `sayn run` created a small ETL process which models
battles from various tournaments.

That's it, you made your first SAYN run! We will now explain what happens in the background.

## Project Overview

The `sayn_tutorial` folder has the following structure:

```
tutorial
├── project.yaml
├── settings.yaml
├── dags
│   └── base.yaml
├── python
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── load_data.py
│   └── utils
│       ├── __init__.py
│       └── log_creator.py
├── sql
│   ├── dim_arenas.sql
│   ├── dim_fighters.sql
│   ├── dim_tournaments.sql
│   ├── f_battles.sql
│   ├── f_fighter_results.sql
│   └── f_rankings.sql
├── compile
├── .gitignore
├── readme.md
└── requirements.txt
```

The main files are:

* `project.yaml`: defines the SAYN project. It is **shared across all collaborators**.
* `settings.yaml`: defines the individual user's settings. It is **unique for each collaborator and
   should never be pushed to git** as it contains credentials.
* `dags`: folder where DAG files are stored. SAYN tasks are defined in those files.
* `python`: folder where `python` tasks are stored.
* `sql`: folder where `sql` and `autosql` tasks are stored.
* `logs`: folder where SAYN logs are written.
* `compile`: folder where compiled SQL queries before execution.

## Implementing your project

Now let's see how the tutorial project would be created from scratch.

### Step 1: Define the project in `project.yaml`

The `project.yaml` file is at the root level of your directory and contains:

!!! example "project.yaml"
    ```yaml
    required_credentials:
      - warehouse
    
    default_db: warehouse
    
    dags:
      - base
    ```

The following is defined:

* `required_credentials`: the list of credentials used by the project. In this case we have a single
  credential called `warehouse`. The connection details will be defined in `settings.yaml`.
* `default_db`: the database used by sql and autosql tasks. Since we only have 1 credential, this
  field can be skipped.
* `dags`: the list of files in the dags folder that contain this project's task definitions.

### Step 2: Define your individual settings with `settings.yaml`

The `settings.yaml` file at the root level of your directory and contains:

!!! example "settings.yaml"
    ```yaml
    profiles:
      dev:
        credentials:
          warehouse: dev_db
      prod:
        credentials:
          warehouse: prod_db
    
    default_profile: dev
    
    credentials:
      dev_db:
        type: sqlite
        database: dev.db
      prod_db:
        type: sqlite
        database: prod.db
    ```

The following is defined:

* `profiles`: the definion of profiles for the project. A profile defines the connection between
  credentials in the `project.yaml` file and credentials defined below. In this case we define 2
  profiles dev and prod.
* `default_profile`: the profile used by default at execution time. It can be overriden using
  `sayn run -p prod`.
* `credentials`: here we define the credentials. In this case we have 2 for dev and prod, that are
  used as `warehouse` on each profile.

### Step 3: Define your DAG(s)

In SAYN, DAGs are defined in `yaml` files within the `dags` folder. As seen before, those `dags` are imported in the `project.yaml` file in order to be executed. When importing the DAGs in the `project.yaml` file, you should write the name without the `.yaml` extension.

Our project contains only one DAG: `base.yaml`. Below is the file:

!!! example "dags/base.yaml"
    ```yaml
    tasks:
      load_data:
        type: python
        class: load_data.LoadData
    
      dim_tournaments:
        type: autosql
        file_name: dim_tournaments.sql
        materialisation: table
        destination:
          table: dim_tournaments
        parents:
          - load_data
    # ...
    ```

The `tasks` entry contains a map of tasks definitions. In this case we're using 2 types of tasks:

* `python`: lets you define a task written in Python. Python tasks are useful to complete your extraction
  and load layers if you're using an ELT tool or for data science models defined in Python.
* `autosql`: lets you write a `SELECT` statement while SAYN manages the table or view creation
  automatically for you. Our example has multiple `autosql` tasks which create models based on the
  logs. 

## `load_data` task

In our example project the only python task is `load_data` which creates some synthetic logs and loads
them to our database. The code can be found in the class `LoadData` in `python/load_data.py`. Let's have
a look at the main elements of a python task

!!! example "python/load_data.py"
    ```python
    # ...
    from sayn import PythonTask

    class LoadData(PythonTask):
        def run(self):
            # Your code here
    ```

The above is the beginning of the python task. When the execution of `sayn run` hits the `load_data`
task the code in the `run` method will execute.

A task in SAYN can be split into multiple steps, which is useful for debugging when errors occur. In this
case, we first generate all data and then we load each dataset one by one. We can define the steps a task
will follow with the `self.set_run_steps` method.

!!! example "python/load_data.py"
    ```python
        def run(self):
            # ...
            self.set_run_steps(
                [
                    "Generate Data",
                    "Load fighters",
                    "Load arenas",
                    "Load tournaments",
                    "Load battles",
                ]
            )
            # ...
    ```

To indicate SAYN what step is executing, we can use the following construct:

!!! example "python/load_data.py"
    ```python
        def run(self):
            # ...
            with self.step("Generate Data"):
                data_to_load = get_data(tournament_battles)
            # ...
    ```

Here our "Generate Data" step calls a function in `python/utils.py` that creates the synthetic logs.

The final core element is accessing databases. In our project we defined a single credential called
`warehouse` and we made this the `default_db`. To access this we just need to use `self.default_db`.

!!! example "python/load_data.py"
    ```python
    self.default_db.execute(q_create)
    ```

The main method in Database objects is `execute` which accepts a sql script via parameter and executes
it in a transaction.

For more information about how to build `python` tasks, visit the [python tasks section](../tasks/python.md).

## Autosql tasks

Let's have a look at one of the autosql tasks (`dim_tournaments`). As you can see in `dag/base.yaml`
above, we specify a `file_name` which contains:

!!! example "sql/dim_tournaments.yaml"
    ```sql
    SELECT l.tournament_id
         , l.tournament_name
      FROM logs_tournaments l
    ```

So a simple `SELECT` statement that SAYN will use when creating a table called `dim_tournaments` as
defined in the `destination` field in the dag file.

For more information about setting up `autosql` tasks, visit the [autosql tasks section](../tasks/autosql.md).

## Running Your Project

So far we've used `sayn run` to execute our project, however SAYN provides more options:

* `sayn run -p [profile_name]`: runs the whole project with the specific profile. In our case using
  the profile `prod` will create a `prod.db` SQLite database and process all data there.
* `sayn run -t [task_name]`: allows the filtering the tasks to run.

More options are available to run specific components of your SAYN project. All details can be
found in the [SAYN cli](../cli.md) section.

## What Next?

You now know the basics of SAYN, congratulations! You can continue learning by going through the [Tutorial: Part 2](tutorial_part2.md) which shows you several tricks to make your SAYN project more dynamic and efficient.

Otherwise, you can go through the rest of the documentation as SAYN has much more to offer!

Enjoy SAYN :)

Commit message:

Load data improvements (#78)
- Database methods raise exceptions rather than return Result objects
- load_data automatically creates tables
- max_batch_rows introduced to allow manipulating the size of batches in load_data

docs/tutorials/tutorial_part1.md, after:

# Tutorial: Part 1

This tutorial covers the basic concepts of SAYN and will get you going quickly. It uses the example
project created by `sayn init`. It assumes SAYN is setup as described in the
[installation section](../installation.md).

This project generates some random data with a `python` task and performs some modelling on it with
`autosql` tasks.

## Running SAYN

To get started, open a terminal, activate your virtual environment (`source sayn_venv/bin/activate`)
and run the following:

```bash
sayn init sayn_tutorial
cd sayn_tutorial
sayn run
```

This will create a new project with the contents of this tutorial and execute it.

![`sayn run` execution](sayn_run1.gif)

You can open `dev.db` and see the tables and views created by `sayn run`. You can use
[DB Browser for SQLite](https://sqlitebrowser.org/dl/){target="\_blank"} in order to view the
content of the database. As you can observe, `sayn run` created a small ETL process which models
battles from various tournaments.

That's it, you made your first SAYN run! We will now explain what happens in the background.

## Project Overview

The `sayn_tutorial` folder has the following structure:

```
tutorial
├── project.yaml
├── settings.yaml
├── dags
│   └── base.yaml
├── python
│   ├── __init__.py
│   └── load_data.py
├── sql
│   ├── dim_arenas.sql
│   ├── dim_fighters.sql
│   ├── dim_tournaments.sql
│   ├── f_battles.sql
│   ├── f_fighter_results.sql
│   └── f_rankings.sql
├── compile
├── .gitignore
├── readme.md
└── requirements.txt
```

The main files are:

* `project.yaml`: defines the SAYN project. It is **shared across all collaborators**.
* `settings.yaml`: defines the individual user's settings. It is **unique for each collaborator and
   should never be pushed to git** as it contains credentials.
* `dags`: folder where DAG files are stored. SAYN tasks are defined in those files.
* `python`: folder where `python` tasks are stored.
* `sql`: folder where `sql` and `autosql` tasks are stored.
* `logs`: folder where SAYN logs are written.
* `compile`: folder where compiled SQL queries before execution.

## Implementing your project

Now let's see how the tutorial project would be created from scratch.

### Step 1: Define the project in `project.yaml`

The `project.yaml` file is at the root level of your directory and contains:

!!! example "project.yaml"
    ```yaml
    required_credentials:
      - warehouse
    
    default_db: warehouse
    
    dags:
      - base
    ```

The following is defined:

* `required_credentials`: the list of credentials used by the project. In this case we have a single
  credential called `warehouse`. The connection details will be defined in `settings.yaml`.
* `default_db`: the database used by sql and autosql tasks. Since we only have 1 credential, this
  field can be skipped.
* `dags`: the list of files in the dags folder that contain this project's task definitions.

### Step 2: Define your individual settings with `settings.yaml`

The `settings.yaml` file at the root level of your directory and contains:

!!! example "settings.yaml"
    ```yaml
    profiles:
      dev:
        credentials:
          warehouse: dev_db
      prod:
        credentials:
          warehouse: prod_db
    
    default_profile: dev
    
    credentials:
      dev_db:
        type: sqlite
        database: dev.db
      prod_db:
        type: sqlite
        database: prod.db
    ```

The following is defined:

* `profiles`: the definion of profiles for the project. A profile defines the connection between
  credentials in the `project.yaml` file and credentials defined below. In this case we define 2
  profiles dev and prod.
* `default_profile`: the profile used by default at execution time. It can be overriden using
  `sayn run -p prod`.
* `credentials`: here we define the credentials. In this case we have 2 for dev and prod, that are
  used as `warehouse` on each profile.

### Step 3: Define your DAG(s)

In SAYN, DAGs are defined in `yaml` files within the `dags` folder. As seen before, those `dags` are imported in the `project.yaml` file in order to be executed. When importing the DAGs in the `project.yaml` file, you should write the name without the `.yaml` extension.

Our project contains only one DAG: `base.yaml`. Below is the file:

!!! example "dags/base.yaml"
    ```yaml
    tasks:
      load_data:
        type: python
        class: load_data.LoadData
    
      dim_tournaments:
        type: autosql
        file_name: dim_tournaments.sql
        materialisation: table
        destination:
          table: dim_tournaments
        parents:
          - load_data
    # ...
    ```

The `tasks` entry contains a map of tasks definitions. In this case we're using 2 types of tasks:

* `python`: lets you define a task written in Python. Python tasks are useful to complete your extraction
  and load layers if you're using an ELT tool or for data science models defined in Python.
* `autosql`: lets you write a `SELECT` statement while SAYN manages the table or view creation
  automatically for you. Our example has multiple `autosql` tasks which create models based on the
  logs. 

## `load_data` task

In our example project the only python task is `load_data` which creates some synthetic logs and loads
them to our database. The code can be found in the class `LoadData` in `python/load_data.py`. Let's have
a look at the main elements of a python task

!!! example "python/load_data.py"
    ```python
    # ...
    from sayn import PythonTask

    class LoadData(PythonTask):
        def run(self):
            # Your code here
    ```

The above is the beginning of the python task. When the execution of `sayn run` hits the `load_data`
task the code in the `run` method will execute.

A task in SAYN can be split into multiple steps, which is useful for debugging when errors occur. In this
case, we first generate all data and then we load each dataset one by one. We can define the steps a task
will follow with the `self.set_run_steps` method.

!!! example "python/load_data.py"
    ```python
        def run(self):
            # ...
            self.set_run_steps(
                [
                    "Generate Dimensions",
                    "Generate Battles",
                    "Load fighters",
                    "Load arenas",
                    "Load tournaments",
                    "Load battles",
                ]
            )
            # ...
    ```

To indicate SAYN what step is executing, we can use the following construct:

!!! example "python/load_data.py"
    ```python
        def run(self):
            # ...
            with self.step("Generate Dimensions"):
                # Add ids to the dimensions
                fighters = [
                    {"fighter_id": str(uuid4()), "fighter_name": val}
                    for id, val in enumerate(self.fighters)
                ]
                arenas = [
                    {"arena_id": str(uuid4()), "arena_name": val}
                    for id, val in enumerate(self.arenas)
                ]
                tournaments = [
                    {"tournament_id": str(uuid4()), "tournament_name": val}
                    for id, val in enumerate(self.tournaments)
                ]
    ```

Here our "Generate Dimensions" step simply generates the dimension variables with an id.

The final core element is accessing databases. In our project we defined a single credential called
`warehouse` and we made this the `default_db`. To access this we just need to use `self.default_db`.

!!! example "python/load_data.py"
    ```python
    self.default_db.execute(q_create)
    ```

The main method in Database objects is `execute` which accepts a sql script via parameter and executes
it in a transaction. Another method used in this tutorial is `load_data` which loads a dataset into
the database automatically creating a table for it first.

For more information about how to build `python` tasks, visit the [python tasks section](../tasks/python.md).

## Autosql tasks

Let's have a look at one of the autosql tasks (`dim_tournaments`). As you can see in `dag/base.yaml`
above, we specify a `file_name` which contains:

!!! example "sql/dim_tournaments.yaml"
    ```sql
    SELECT l.tournament_id
         , l.tournament_name
      FROM logs_tournaments l
    ```

So a simple `SELECT` statement that SAYN will use when creating a table called `dim_tournaments` as
defined in the `destination` field in the dag file.

For more information about setting up `autosql` tasks, visit the [autosql tasks section](../tasks/autosql.md).

## Running Your Project

So far we've used `sayn run` to execute our project, however SAYN provides more options:

* `sayn run -p [profile_name]`: runs the whole project with the specific profile. In our case using
  the profile `prod` will create a `prod.db` SQLite database and process all data there.
* `sayn run -t [task_name]`: allows the filtering the tasks to run.

More options are available to run specific components of your SAYN project. All details can be
found in the [SAYN cli](../cli.md) section.

## What Next?

You now know the basics of SAYN, congratulations! You can continue learning by going through the [Tutorial: Part 2](tutorial_part2.md) which shows you several tricks to make your SAYN project more dynamic and efficient.

Otherwise, you can go through the rest of the documentation as SAYN has much more to offer!

Enjoy SAYN :)
