docs/tasks/autosql.md, before:

# `autosql` Task

## About

The `autosql` task lets you write a `SELECT` statement and SAYN then automates the data processing (i.e. table or view creation, incremental load, etc.) for you.

## Defining `autosql` Tasks In `models.yaml`

An `autosql` task is defined as follows:

!!! example "autosql task definition"
    ```yaml
    ...

    task_autosql:
      type: autosql
      file_name: task_autosql.sql
      materialisation: table
      destination:
        tmp_schema: analytics_staging
        schema: analytics_models
        table: task_autosql
    ...
    ```

An `autosql` task is defined by the following attributes:

* `type`: `autosql`.
* `file_name`: the name of the file **within the sql folder of the project's root**.
* `materialisation`: this should be either `table`, `view` or `incremental`. `table` will create a table, `view` will create a view. `incremental` will create a table and will load the data incrementally based on a delete key (see more detail on `incremental` below).
* `destination`: this sets the details of the data processing.
    * `tmp_schema`: specifies the schema which will be used to store any necessary temporary object created in the process. This is optional.
    * `schema`: is the destination schema where the object will be created. This is optional.
    * `table`: is the name of the object that will be created.
* `delete_key`: specifies the incremental process delete key. This is for `incremental` `materialisation` only.

## Using `autosql` In `incremental` Mode

If you do not want to have a full refresh of your tables, you can use the `autosql` task with `incremental` `materialisation`. This is extremely useful for large data volumes when full refresh would be too long.

SAYN `autosql` tasks with `incremental` materialisation require a `delete_key` to be set. Please see below an example:

!!! example "autosql in incremental mode"
    ```yaml
    ...

    task_autosql_incremental:
      type: autosql
      file_name: task_autosql_incremental.sql
      materialisation: incremental
      destination:
        tmp_schema: analytics_staging
        schema: analytics_models
        table: task_autosql
      delete_key:
          - dt
    ...
    ```

When using `incremental`, SAYN will do the following in the background:

1. Create a temporary table based on the incremental logic from the SAYN query.
2. Delete rows from the target table that are found in the temporary table based on the `delete_key`.
3. Load the temporary table in the destination table.

## Defining DDLs

You can define the following DDL parameters in the `autosql` task definition:

* indexes
* primary_key

!!! example "autosql with DDL"
    ```yaml
    ...

    task_autosql:
      type: autosql
      file_name: task_autosql.sql
      materialisation: table
      destination:
        tmp_schema: analytics_staging
        schema: analytics_models
        table: task_autosql
      ddl:
        indexes:
          primary_key:
            columns:
              - column1
              - column2
          idx1:
            columns:
              - column1
    ...
    ```

Commit message:

Autosql Incremental Full Load Fix (#30)
* Fixed full load for autosql incremental

docs/tasks/autosql.md, after:

# `autosql` Task

## About

The `autosql` task lets you write a `SELECT` statement and SAYN then automates the data processing (i.e. table or view creation, incremental load, etc.) for you.

## Defining `autosql` Tasks In `models.yaml`

An `autosql` task is defined as follows:

!!! example "autosql task definition"
    ```yaml
    ...

    task_autosql:
      type: autosql
      file_name: task_autosql.sql
      materialisation: table
      destination:
        tmp_schema: analytics_staging
        schema: analytics_models
        table: task_autosql
    ...
    ```

An `autosql` task is defined by the following attributes:

* `type`: `autosql`.
* `file_name`: the name of the file **within the sql folder of the project's root**.
* `materialisation`: this should be either `table`, `view` or `incremental`. `table` will create a table, `view` will create a view. `incremental` will create a table and will load the data incrementally based on a delete key (see more detail on `incremental` below).
* `destination`: this sets the details of the data processing.
    * `tmp_schema`: specifies the schema which will be used to store any necessary temporary object created in the process. This is optional.
    * `schema`: is the destination schema where the object will be created. This is optional.
    * `table`: is the name of the object that will be created.
* `delete_key`: specifies the incremental process delete key. This is for `incremental` `materialisation` only.

## Using `autosql` In `incremental` Mode

If you do not want to have a full refresh of your tables, you can use the `autosql` task with `incremental` `materialisation`. This is extremely useful for large data volumes when full refresh would be too long.

SAYN `autosql` tasks with `incremental` materialisation require a `delete_key`. Please see below an example:

!!! example "autosql in incremental mode"
    ```yaml
    ...

    task_autosql_incremental:
      type: autosql
      file_name: task_autosql_incremental.sql
      materialisation: incremental
      destination:
        tmp_schema: analytics_staging
        schema: analytics_models
        table: task_autosql
      delete_key: dt
    ...
    ```

When using `incremental`, SAYN will do the following in the background:

1. Create a temporary table based on the incremental logic from the SAYN query.
2. Delete rows from the target table that are found in the temporary table based on the `delete_key`.
3. Load the temporary table in the destination table.

### Incremental SAYN parameters

There are three SAYN parameters which you can use for autosql tasks in incremental mode:

* `full_load`: controlled by the `-f` flag in the SAYN command. This will reload the whole table.
* `start_dt`: controlled by the `-s` flag in the SAYN command.
* `end_dt`: controlled by the `-e` flag in the SAYN command.

## Defining DDLs

You can define the following DDL parameters in the `autosql` task definition:

* indexes
* primary_key

!!! example "autosql with DDL"
    ```yaml
    ...

    task_autosql:
      type: autosql
      file_name: task_autosql.sql
      materialisation: table
      destination:
        tmp_schema: analytics_staging
        schema: analytics_models
        table: task_autosql
      ddl:
        indexes:
          primary_key:
            columns:
              - column1
              - column2
          idx1:
            columns:
              - column1
    ...
    ```
