docs/databases/overview.md, before:

# Databases

## About

SAYN uses [sqlalchemy](https://www.sqlalchemy.org/){target="\_blank"} in order to manage database connections.
It currently supports the following databases:

* [Redshift](redshift.md)
* [Snowflake](snowflake.md)
* [PostgreSQL](postgresql.md)
* [MySQL](mysql.md)
* [SQLite](sqlite.md)

## Usage

Database connections are defined as `credentials` in `settings.yaml` by specifying the database
`type` and other connection parameters.

!!! example "settings.yaml"
    ```yaml
    credentials:
      db_name:
        type: redshift

        host: ...
        # other connection parameters ...
    ```

You can check the list of connection parameters in the database specific pages of this section.
If a parameter that is not listed on the database page is included in `settings.yaml`, that parameter
will be passed to [sqlalchemy.create_engine](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/13/core/engines.html#sqlalchemy.create_engine){target="\_blank"}.
Refer to sqlalchemy's documentation if you need to fine tune the connection.

For example, to specify the default timezone for a Snowflake connection, this can be
specified in the `connect_args` parameter:

!!! example "settings.yaml"
    ```yaml
    credentials:
      db_name:
        type: snowflake

        account: ...
        # other connection parameters

        connect_args:
          timezone: UTC
    ```

All databases support a parameter `max_batch_rows` that controls the default size of a batch
when using `load_data` or in copy tasks. If you get an error when running SAYN indicating the
amount of data is too large, adjust this value.

!!! example "settings.yaml"
    ```yaml
    credentials:
      dev_db:
        type: sqlite
        database: dev.db
        max_batch_rows: 200
    ```

## Using databases in Python tasks

Databases and other credentials defined in the SAYN project are available to Python tasks via
`self.connections`. For convenience though, all Python tasks have a `default_db` property that
gives you access to the default database declared in `project.yaml`.

The [database python class](../api/database.md) provides several methods and properties to make it
easier to work with python tasks. For example, `self.default_db.engine` can be used to to call 
`DataFrame.read_sql` from pandas, but also provides some other convenient methods.

!!! example "Example PythonTask"
    ``` python hl_lines="5"
    from sayn import PythonTask

    class TaskPython(PythonTask):
        def run(self):
            data = self.default_db.select("SELECT * FROM test_table")

            # do something with that data
    ```

## Database class

::: sayn.database.Database
    selection:
      members:
        - execute
        - select
        - load_data

Commit message:

DDL primary key fix & DB API revamp (#89)
* Fixed primary key DDLs

* Amended database API

* Added ddl unit tests to test pks

docs/databases/overview.md, after:

# Databases

## About

SAYN uses [sqlalchemy](https://www.sqlalchemy.org/){target="\_blank"} in order to manage database connections.
It currently supports the following databases:

* [Redshift](redshift.md)
* [Snowflake](snowflake.md)
* [PostgreSQL](postgresql.md)
* [MySQL](mysql.md)
* [SQLite](sqlite.md)

## Usage

Database connections are defined as `credentials` in `settings.yaml` by specifying the database
`type` and other connection parameters.

!!! example "settings.yaml"
    ```yaml
    credentials:
      db_name:
        type: redshift

        host: ...
        # other connection parameters ...
    ```

You can check the list of connection parameters in the database specific pages of this section.
If a parameter that is not listed on the database page is included in `settings.yaml`, that parameter
will be passed to [sqlalchemy.create_engine](https://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/13/core/engines.html#sqlalchemy.create_engine){target="\_blank"}.
Refer to sqlalchemy's documentation if you need to fine tune the connection.

For example, to specify the default timezone for a Snowflake connection, this can be
specified in the `connect_args` parameter:

!!! example "settings.yaml"
    ```yaml
    credentials:
      db_name:
        type: snowflake

        account: ...
        # other connection parameters

        connect_args:
          timezone: UTC
    ```

All databases support a parameter `max_batch_rows` that controls the default size of a batch
when using `load_data` or in copy tasks. If you get an error when running SAYN indicating the
amount of data is too large, adjust this value.

!!! example "settings.yaml"
    ```yaml
    credentials:
      dev_db:
        type: sqlite
        database: dev.db
        max_batch_rows: 200
    ```

## Using databases in Python tasks

Databases and other credentials defined in the SAYN project are available to Python tasks via
`self.connections`. For convenience though, all Python tasks have a `default_db` property that
gives you access to the default database declared in `project.yaml`.

The [database python class](../api/database.md) provides several methods and properties to make it
easier to work with python tasks. For example you can easily read or load data with `self.default_db` (see example below) or use `self.default_db.engine` to call `DataFrame.read_sql` from pandas.

!!! example "Example PythonTask"
    ``` python hl_lines="5"
    from sayn import PythonTask

    class TaskPython(PythonTask):
        def run(self):
            data = self.default_db.read_data("SELECT * FROM test_table")

            # do something with that data
    ```
