docs/project_structure.md, before:

# SAYN Project Structure

## Initial Project Structure

A usual SAYN project structure will be as follows:

      project-name    # The name you chose.
        compile/      # The folder where compiled SQL queries are stored.
        logs/         # The folder where SAYN logs are stored.
        models/       # The folder where additional models can be added.
        python/       # The folder where Python tasks modules should be stored.
        sql/          # The folder where SQL tasks queries should be stored.
        models.yaml   # The backbone of a SAYN project enabling to define and orchestrate tasks.
        settings.yaml # The settings of an individual SAYN user.
        .gitignore    # To ignore settings.yaml and other files.

The two core files of a SAYN project are `settings.yaml` (unique settings for each individual) and `models.yaml` where the tasks of the project are defined (this is shared by all users on the project).

Please note that `sayn init [project-name]` initialises your SAYN project with an example and and a sample SQLite database. This is only so you can have an overview of SAYN and go through the [Tutorial](tutorial.md) and can be deleted once you start working on your own project.

We will now cover the detail of both files, what they contain and what they are used for.

Commit message:

[WIP] Tutorial / Docs Revamp (#11)
* changed project base folder

* modified project base readme

* changes to documentation for 0.2

* docs changes to align with 0.2

* more changes to docs and init project

* changed parameters docs

* added ga tracking to docs

* change docs project.yaml;

* tutorial, init and docs further changes

* changes docs / tutorial

* docs  changes

* changed logging to print for init

* added __init__.py file to utils in base project

* final docs changes

docs/project_structure.md, after:

# SAYN Project Structure

SAYN projects are structured as follows:

```
  project_name   
    compile/ #only appears after first run     
    dags/
        dag.yaml
    logs/ #only appears after first run
        sayn.log
    python/
        __init__.py
        task_1.py
    sql/
        task_2.sql
        task_3.sql
        task_4.sql
    .gitignore
    project.yaml
    readme.md
    settings.yaml
```

Please see below the role of each component:

* `project.yaml`: defines the core components of the SAYN project. It is **shared across all collaborators**.
* `settings.yaml`: defines the individual user's settings. It is **unique for each collaborator and should never be pushed to git** as it contains credentials.
* `dags`: folder where `dag` files are stored. SAYN tasks are defined in those files.
* `python`: folder where `python` tasks are stored.
* `sql`: folder where `sql` and `autosql` tasks are stored.
* `logs`: folder where SAYN logs are written.
* `compile`: folder where SQL queries are compiled before execution.
